README.md, before:

Chat History Manager (backend)
==============================

Parses, stores and reads chat histories exported from different sources in a dedicated SQLite database.
This includes not just text messages, but also media, stickers, call records and other salvageable data.
Big part of app's functionality is merging chat history snapshots taken on different dates under different settings.

Doesn't have a UI of its own, exposing a gRPC API instead.
Crude UI written in Scala in available as a [spearate project](https://github.com/frozenspider/chat-history-manager-ui) 

To run the gRPC server on a default port 50051, use
```
cargo run --release start-server
```

Supports a bunch of different history formats, refer to sections below for their list and instuction on how to
extract history.
Architecture is extensible, allowing more formats to easily be supported in the future.

Some general notes:
- To parse a standalone 1-on-1 chat, Scala UI needs to be running as it will be asked to identify self user.
- Most of these history formats are reverse engineered, so:
  - Some message types may not be supported as I simply haven't encountered them yet.
  - Compatibility might break unexpectedly as apps sometimes decide to change their storage format.


Telegram
--------
To export chats history, on a Desktop client, go to `Settings -> Advanced -> Export Telegram data`,
choose `Machine-readable JSON` format. 

Then load `result.json` in the app.

One limitation is that **chats containing topics are ignored**.

Note that at least on one occasion, the exported file did not contain `personal_information` section.
This needs to be fixed manually, e.g. by doing another export with no chats included, and copying over
`personal_information` from the new `result.json`.

WhatsApp
--------
Using a rooted Androind phone, download the database through `adb`:
- `adb shell su -c 'cp -r /data/data/com.whatsapp /storage/self/primary/Download/com.whatsapp'`
- `adb pull /storage/self/primary/Download/com.whatsapp`
- Optional cleanup:
  `adb shell su -c 'rm -rf /storage/self/primary/Download/com.whatsapp'`
- If you want media to be resolved, you need to pull it too:
  `adb pull /storage/self/primary/Android/media/com.whatsapp/WhatsApp/Media ./com.whatsapp/Media`
- Load `./databases/msgstore.db` (requires `wa.db` needs to be present in the same directory)

Can also import a WhatsApp exported chat, a text file named `WhatsApp Chat with <name>.txt`.
Note that this format is very limited. 

Signal (WIP)
------------
Reads (manually decrypted) Signal Desktop database and decrypts attachments.
- On macOS, encrypted database is located in `~/Library/Application Support/Signal/sql/db.sqlite`.
- Encrypted attachments are read from `attachments.noindex` directory if present,
  and are decrypted into `_decrypted` (this may take a while to be processed).
- Has only been tested with Signal Desktop v7.27 and may not work with older/newer versions.

Current limitations:
- Can't handle group chats, formatted text and stickers yet.
- Doesn't understand forwards.
- Required database to be manually decrypted via [sqlcipher](https://github.com/sqlcipher/sqlcipher/) as
  `plaintext.sqlite`.
- This in turn requires a password from `config.json` to be decrypted with a password from macOS Keychain -
  refer to [this comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/signal/comments/1edkaok/comment/lfbz5kq/) for guidance.

Kudos to [sigtop](https://github.com/tbvdm/sigtop) for the attachment decryption code. 

Mail.Ru Agent
-------------
Loads histories from two database formats:
- `mra.dbs` used prior to 2014-08-28
- `<account-name>.db` (used after 2014-08-28 and up to 2018, more recent versions were not tested)

In either case, loading `mra.dbs` will load both.

Known issues:
- Only a subset of smile types is supported.
- Some smile types are not converted and left as-is since I don't have a reference to see how they looked like.
- In rare cases, Russian text is double-encoded as cp1251 within UTF-16 LE. Distorted text is passed as-is.
- In legacy database, timestamps are shifted by several hours (looks to be coerced to UTC+1?),
  and the exact time shift from real time is not obvious.
  - If both database formats are present and there's an overlap in stored messages, it will be used to adjust the time.
  - Otherwise, after parsing legacy database, use `ShiftDatasetTime` to adjust the time to the correct timezone,
    if known.
- Newer database often contains duplicate messages. Best effort is made to get rid of them,
  but the side effect is that it might also remove "legitimate" duplicates (i.e. if a user sent the same message
  multiple times in quick succession on purpose).

Tinder
------
(Required a rooted Androind phone) 

Note that what's stored on the device is just cached messages, so:
- It may contain messages from deleted/unmatched chats.
- If the chat has not been recently viewed in the app, its messages may not be present in the database.

To download the database use `adb`:
- `adb shell su -c 'cp -r /data/data/com.tinder/databases /storage/self/primary/Download/com.tinder'`
- `adb pull /storage/self/primary/Download/com.tinder`
- Optional cleanup: `adb shell su -c 'rm -rf /storage/self/primary/Download/com.tinder'`
- Load `./tinder-3.db`

Will attempt to download profile pictures and GIFs to `./Media/_downloaded` if not already there.

Badoo
-----
(Required a rooted Androind phone)

Note that what's stored on the device is just cached messages, so:
- It may contain messages from deleted/unmatched chats.
- If the chat has not been recently viewed in the app, its messages may not be present in the database.

To download the database use `adb`:
- `adb shell su -c 'cp -r /data/data/com.badoo.mobile/databases /storage/self/primary/Download/com.badoo.mobile'`
- `adb pull /storage/self/primary/Download/com.badoo.mobile`
- Optional cleanup: `adb shell su -c 'rm -rf /storage/self/primary/Download/com.badoo.mobile'`
- Load `./ChatComDatabase`

Commit message:

Signal: Support for legacy v6 desktop client database

README.md, after:

Chat History Manager (backend)
==============================

Parses, stores and reads chat histories exported from different sources in a dedicated SQLite database.
This includes not just text messages, but also media, stickers, call records and other salvageable data.
Big part of app's functionality is merging chat history snapshots taken on different dates under different settings.

Doesn't have a UI of its own, exposing a gRPC API instead.
Crude UI written in Scala in available as a [spearate project](https://github.com/frozenspider/chat-history-manager-ui) 

To run the gRPC server on a default port 50051, use
```
cargo run --release start-server
```

Supports a bunch of different history formats, refer to sections below for their list and instuction on how to
extract history.
Architecture is extensible, allowing more formats to easily be supported in the future.

Some general notes:
- To parse a standalone 1-on-1 chat, Scala UI needs to be running as it will be asked to identify self user.
- Most of these history formats are reverse engineered, so:
  - Some message types may not be supported as I simply haven't encountered them yet.
  - Compatibility might break unexpectedly as apps sometimes decide to change their storage format.


Telegram
--------
To export chats history, on a Desktop client, go to `Settings -> Advanced -> Export Telegram data`,
choose `Machine-readable JSON` format. 

Then load `result.json` in the app.

One limitation is that **chats containing topics are ignored**.

Note that at least on one occasion, the exported file did not contain `personal_information` section.
This needs to be fixed manually, e.g. by doing another export with no chats included, and copying over
`personal_information` from the new `result.json`.

WhatsApp
--------
Using a rooted Androind phone, download the database through `adb`:
- `adb shell su -c 'cp -r /data/data/com.whatsapp /storage/self/primary/Download/com.whatsapp'`
- `adb pull /storage/self/primary/Download/com.whatsapp`
- Optional cleanup:
  `adb shell su -c 'rm -rf /storage/self/primary/Download/com.whatsapp'`
- If you want media to be resolved, you need to pull it too:
  `adb pull /storage/self/primary/Android/media/com.whatsapp/WhatsApp/Media ./com.whatsapp/Media`
- Load `./databases/msgstore.db` (requires `wa.db` needs to be present in the same directory)

Can also import a WhatsApp exported chat, a text file named `WhatsApp Chat with <name>.txt`.
Note that this format is very limited. 

Signal
------------
Reads a Signal Desktop database and decrypts attachment files.
- On macOS, encrypted database is located in `~/Library/Application Support/Signal/sql/db.sqlite`.
- Requires either Signal's `config.json` with either plaintext (legacy) or encrypted key,
  or for database to be pre-decrypted manually.
  - If both the database and the key are encrypted, you will be prompted for a password that you should
    retrieve manually. E.g. on macOS, it's stored in the Keychain.
  - To manually decrypt database, use `sqlcipher` and `sqlcipher_export` to export it as a `plaintext.sqlite` 
    Refer to [this comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/signal/comments/1edkaok/comment/lfbz5kq/) for guidance.
- Encrypted attachments are read from `attachments.noindex` directory if present,
  and are decrypted into `_decrypted` (this may take a while to be processed).
- Has only been tested with Signal Desktop v6.18 and v7.27 and may not work with older/newer versions.

Current limitations:
- Can't decrypt attachments for pre-v7 Signal database.
- Can't handle group chats, formatted text and stickers yet.
- Doesn't understand forwards.

Kudos to [sigtop](https://github.com/tbvdm/sigtop) for the attachment decryption code. 

Mail.Ru Agent
-------------
Loads histories from two database formats:
- `mra.dbs` used prior to 2014-08-28
- `<account-name>.db` (used after 2014-08-28 and up to 2018, more recent versions were not tested)

In either case, loading `mra.dbs` will load both.

Known issues:
- Only a subset of smile types is supported.
- Some smile types are not converted and left as-is since I don't have a reference to see how they looked like.
- In rare cases, Russian text is double-encoded as cp1251 within UTF-16 LE. Distorted text is passed as-is.
- In legacy database, timestamps are shifted by several hours (looks to be coerced to UTC+1?),
  and the exact time shift from real time is not obvious.
  - If both database formats are present and there's an overlap in stored messages, it will be used to adjust the time.
  - Otherwise, after parsing legacy database, use `ShiftDatasetTime` to adjust the time to the correct timezone,
    if known.
- Newer database often contains duplicate messages. Best effort is made to get rid of them,
  but the side effect is that it might also remove "legitimate" duplicates (i.e. if a user sent the same message
  multiple times in quick succession on purpose).

Tinder
------
(Required a rooted Androind phone) 

Note that what's stored on the device is just cached messages, so:
- It may contain messages from deleted/unmatched chats.
- If the chat has not been recently viewed in the app, its messages may not be present in the database.

To download the database use `adb`:
- `adb shell su -c 'cp -r /data/data/com.tinder/databases /storage/self/primary/Download/com.tinder'`
- `adb pull /storage/self/primary/Download/com.tinder`
- Optional cleanup: `adb shell su -c 'rm -rf /storage/self/primary/Download/com.tinder'`
- Load `./tinder-3.db`

Will attempt to download profile pictures and GIFs to `./Media/_downloaded` if not already there.

Badoo
-----
(Required a rooted Androind phone)

Note that what's stored on the device is just cached messages, so:
- It may contain messages from deleted/unmatched chats.
- If the chat has not been recently viewed in the app, its messages may not be present in the database.

To download the database use `adb`:
- `adb shell su -c 'cp -r /data/data/com.badoo.mobile/databases /storage/self/primary/Download/com.badoo.mobile'`
- `adb pull /storage/self/primary/Download/com.badoo.mobile`
- Optional cleanup: `adb shell su -c 'rm -rf /storage/self/primary/Download/com.badoo.mobile'`
- Load `./ChatComDatabase`
